---
title: Plugins
description: Cross-cutting capabilities for your App
---

Plugins tackle the cross-cutting capabilities of your application. Vyuh provides
standard interfaces to the most critical capabilities with an ever-growing set
of third-party integrations.

## Core Plugins

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Content</strong></td><td>Allows integrating with a CMS to drive the entire App Experience.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Navigation</strong></td><td>Allows navigation and routing to various routes in your application. Vyuh uses the GoRouter is its built-in router.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Analytics</strong></td><td>Tracks all events, actions, network calls, navigation inside your Vyuh App</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Dependency Injection</strong></td><td>Provides a way to fetch shared services and objects that are required across the Application using a centralized registry.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Network</strong></td><td>Makes network calls using your standard ReST methods (get, post, patch, delete, etc.)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Auth</strong></td><td>Handles authentication and its associated session/token management.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Feature Flag</strong></td><td>Run A/B/N Tests or just control visibility of features, actions, layouts, content-blocks and even screen journeys.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Storage</strong></td><td>Provides persistent or in-memory key-value storage that can be used to store app related data</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Secure Storage</strong></td><td>A secure version of the storage with built-in encryption</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Logger</strong></td><td>Handles logging the various activities for debugging purposes. It supports all the log levels you expect in a logging system.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Pro Plugins

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Analytics &#x26; Telemetry</strong></td><td>Additional analytics plugins for tracking user-analytics and telemetry. This includes integrations with providers like Sentry, Amplitude, PostHog, and others.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Ads</strong></td><td>Ads integrations with providers like Google, Meta, and others</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Permissions</strong></td><td>Native permissions for several platform specific features like Biometrics, File System, Camera, Microphone, Location, etc.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Notifications</strong></td><td>Local and Push notifications support for Apple and Google.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Payments</strong></td><td>Direct integrations with payments systems and gateways like Razorpay, Stripe, RevenueCat, Chargebee</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>API Platforms</strong></td><td>Simplified integrations with platforms like Firebase, Supabase, etc.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Audio/Video Communications</strong></td><td>Integrations with Chat, Audio and Video systems like Agora, Stream, etc.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Marketplace</strong></td><td>Simplified integrations managing catalogs and marketplaces like Shopify, WooCommerce, Ecwid, etc.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Enterprise Integrations</strong></td><td>Bespoke integrations with specific systems within an Enterprise, such as Authentication, APIs and other third parties.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
